README.md, before:

# Salsify Line Server

Displays the cost of a set of call records stored in a file.

## How to run

To run the application use the following command in the application's folder:

```bash
$ bin/lineserver <path-to-file>
```

Replace `<path-to-file>` with the path to a file in the following [format](#file-format).

### Configuration

The simulation configuration is defined in the `conf/application.conf` file:
 
```
FIXME
```
 
Where:




* How does your system work? (if not addressed in comments in source)
* How will your system perform with a 1 GB file? a 10 GB file? a 100 GB file?
* How will your system perform with 100 users? 10000 users? 1000000 users?
* What documentation, websites, papers, etc did you consult in doing this assignment?
* What third-party libraries or other tools does the system use? How did you choose each library or framework you used?
* How long did you spend on this exercise? If you had unlimited more time to spend on this, how would you spend it and how would you prioritize each item?
* If you were to critique your code, what would you have to say about it?



TODO:
- versioned endpoints
- Thingy on documenting the endponts and make it available at a specific port

Commit message:

Add Load Balancer and adds replica client

README.md, after:

# Salsify Line Server

Server that serves a single immutable file  through a Rest API.

## How it works?

This system was built to scale both horizontally and vertically. There two main components:
* The `client` 

## How to run

To run the application use the following command in the application's folder:

```bash
$ bin/lineserver <path-to-file>
```

Replace `<path-to-file>` with the path to a file in the following [format](#file-format).

### Configuration

The simulation configuration is defined in the `conf/application.conf` file:
 
```
FIXME
```
 
Where:




* How does your system work? (if not addressed in comments in source)
* How will your system perform with a 1 GB file? a 10 GB file? a 100 GB file?
* How will your system perform with 100 users? 10000 users? 1000000 users?
* What documentation, websites, papers, etc did you consult in doing this assignment?
* What third-party libraries or other tools does the system use? How did you choose each library or framework you used?
* How long did you spend on this exercise? If you had unlimited more time to spend on this, how would you spend it and how would you prioritize each item?
* If you were to critique your code, what would you have to say about it?



TODO:
- versioned endpoints
- Thingy on documenting the endponts and make it available at a specific port
